Life in Glyncorug. Life for a child during the coal mining days of the village was said to be exciting.
The village children dammed the River Corug, providing a makeshift swimming pool, though it was dirty from the coal waste.
The surrounding mountainous area is described as being like an adventure playground for children.
The coal tips in the village provided a source of coal for miners who were out of work.
Village children would also be sent to the tips to gather coal for their mothers to cook with.
They risked being caught by the line manager and his men, who according to locals would put a boot up your backside.
In the summer, women and children would collect windberries from the mountainside,
whilst men would snare rabbits found on the forest edge or pick fresh mushrooms when they were in season.
At one time they were said to poach trout from the stream, but as coal production increased the river became more and more polluted.
Whatever was gathered would supplement the household later when times were lean.
Most miners in the village had an allotment, which would provide the family with fresh vegetables when they were in season.
The allotments provided an economic value to miners, but also had a social aspect.
The men would spend hours cultivating their strips of land and passing the time with their workmates.
Most boys in the village were expected to follow their fathers into the pit, while girls followed their mothers into early wedlock.
The day that a boy entered the pit for the first time is when they would first be considered a man.
For the first few years of mining life, the young men would work alongside their fathers until eventually they were allowed to cross them in the pit.
To cross means that they would be working in the same stall or place, but on opposite shifts.
It was said to be a proud moment when a young man was told he was good enough to cross his father in the pit.
When the young men and their fathers came home from the pit, there would be buckets of water on the fire for them to bathe.
The procedure for most families would be as follows.
The first to bathe would strip the top half of his body and kneel down in front of the bath, washing the top half of his body.
His back would be washed by the next one to bathe.
Whilst the first bather would be wiping the top half of his body, the second bather would get on with washing his top half.
The first bather would then strip naked and get into the bath to wash his bottom half.
If there were more than two bathing, then the water would be changed.
Some miners would not have their backs washed until the very last shift of the week, believing that washing it every day would weaken it.